Searching for DB Credentials
When looking for credentials, we have to
think like an administrator or a developer
Where would a developer
store credentials?
How would credentials be used?
Are there any history or log files where
credentials could be saved accidentally?
For example, if a server user
accidentally enters their password
in the username field, it might be saved
in the authentication log file.
Let’s think like an administrator
and look at locations
that might contain user information.
We first start by looking at /etc/passwd,
/etc/group,
and /etc/shadow,
to get a feeling on how many users and
groups have access to the target system.
However, the only useful piece
of information we gather
is that a user named “ajla” exists.
Let’s check the user’s home
directory to see what we can find.
We don’t find much in the home directory,
but let’s take a look at the bash history
file to see what they’ve been up to.
This is interesting.
A fairly empty history means
the account is not used much.
The server must have been
administered somehow
but we don’t see any
other users on the system.
Let’s check the root user’s history.
Interesting.
The root user was used to
administer Ajla at one point,
and the MySQL client was used
to drop the “wordpress” database.
Luckily for us, the password and user were
entered directly on the command line.
Excellent!